Explore about Collections and Arrays class?

Collections in Java :-

		The collections in java provide an architecture to store and manipulate the group of objects, 
interfaces and classes. A collection is a group of objects or it is a single entity that represents multiple objects.

Java collection framework consists of classes and interfaces by using these classes and interface developers can represent a group of objects in a single entity. 
Collection framework is present in package java. util. 

What is collections in java?
The Collections in Java provides an architecture to store and manipulate the group of objects, 
interfaces and classes. This java collection is a framework. This framework has several useful 
functions that have tons of useful functions, 
making a programmer task super easy.

This framework provides many interfaces (Queue, Set, List, Deque) and 
classes ( PriorityQueue, HashSet, ArrayList, Vector, LinkedList, LinkedHashSet).

Arrays class in Java :-
		    The Arrays class in java.util package is a part of the Java Collection Framework. 
This class provides static methods to dynamically create and access Java arrays. 
It consists of only static methods and the methods of Object class. 
The methods of this class can be used by the class name itself.

Methods in Java Array Class :-
			The Arrays class of the java.util package contains several static methods that can be used to fill, 
sort, search, etc in arrays. Now let us discuss the methods of this class which are shown below in a tabular format as follows:


Why do we need an Array Java class?
				I’m enlisting a few points to answer this question. 
You will encounter several situations where you have to apply the concept of loops but array 
Java class provides you with several static methods. These methods can help you to perform the 
task without the use of loops! You can sort arrays, search arrays, modify them and so on!

With this, we come to the end of this article. I hope you have understood the Array class in Java, 
their types, importance and their implementation through some real-time examples.